Z_resources.md, before:

##Elixir

This is a selected list of resources to help you find your way with Elixir, Phoenix, and Erlang. For a more complete list of Elixir resources, please see the <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/wiki">Elixir Wiki</a>.

- <a href="http://elixir-lang.org/getting_started/1.html">Elixir Guides</a>
- <a href="http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/elixir/">Official Documentation</a> (curent stable release)
- <a href="https://hex.pm/">Hex Packages and Documentation</a>

#####The Erlangist: Understanding Elixir Macros, by Saša Jurić
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-1.html">Part 1</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-2.html">Part 2</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-3.html">Part 3</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-4.html">Part 4</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-5.html">Part 5</a>

#####Books
  - <a href="http://pragprog.com/book/elixir/programming-elixir">Programming Elixir</a>, Dave Thomas
  - <a href="http://www.manning.com/juric/">Elixir in Action</a>, Saša Jurić
  - <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920030584.do">Introducing Elixir</a>, Simon St. Laurent, J. David Eisenberg


##Phoenix
- <a href="https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix">The Phoenix Project</a>
- <a href="http://api.phoenixframework.org/">Official Documentation</a> (current stable release)

#####Elixir Dose: Let's Build Web App With Phoenix And Ecto, by Riza Fahmi, edited by Augie De Blieck Jr.
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/lets-build-web-app-with-phoenix-and-ecto">Part 1</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-ecto-and-jobs-portal-project-part-2">Part 2</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-ecto-and-jobs-portal-project-part-3">Part 3</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-part-4-registration-and-login">Part 4</a>

#####Videos
  - <a href="http://www.confreaks.com/videos/3488-railsconf-workshop-all-aboard-the-elixir-expresse">All Aboard The Elixir Express</a>, Chris McCord
  - <a href="http://www.confreaks.com/videos/4132-elixirconf2014-rise-of-the-phoenix-building-an-elixir-web-framework">The Rise of the Phoenix</a>, Chris McCord

##Erlang
- <a href="http://www.erlang.org/doc/getting_started/users_guide.html">Erlang User Guide</a>

#####Books
- <a href="http://pragprog.com/book/jaerlang2/programming-erlang">Programming Erlang</a> 2nd Edition, Joe Armstrong
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920025818.do">Introducing Erlang</a>, Simon St. Laurent
- <a href="http://www.nostarch.com/erlang">Learn You Some Erlang for Great Good!</a>, Fred Hebert
- <a href="http://www.manning.com/logan/">Erlang and OTP in Action</a>, Martin Logan, Eric Merritt, and Richard Carlsson
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596518189.do">Erlang Programming</a>, Francesco Cesarini and Simon Thompson
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920024149.do">Designing for Scalability with Erlang/OTP</a>, Francesco Cesarini, Steve Vinoski
- <a href="http://www.erlang-in-anger.com/">Erlang in Anger</a>, Fred Hebert

Commit message:

adds links for plug, eex, and cowboy

Z_resources.md, after:

##Elixir

This is a selected list of resources to help you find your way with Elixir, Phoenix, and Erlang. For a more complete list of Elixir resources, please see the <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir/wiki">Elixir Wiki</a>.

- <a href="http://elixir-lang.org/getting_started/1.html">Elixir Guides</a>
- <a href="http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/elixir/">Official Documentation</a> (curent stable release)
- <a href="https://hex.pm/">Hex Packages and Documentation</a>

#####The Erlangist: Understanding Elixir Macros, by Saša Jurić
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-1.html">Part 1</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-2.html">Part 2</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-3.html">Part 3</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-4.html">Part 4</a>
  - <a href="http://www.theerlangelist.com/2014/06/understanding-elixir-macros-part-5.html">Part 5</a>

#####Books
  - <a href="http://pragprog.com/book/elixir/programming-elixir">Programming Elixir</a>, Dave Thomas
  - <a href="http://www.manning.com/juric/">Elixir in Action</a>, Saša Jurić
  - <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920030584.do">Introducing Elixir</a>, Simon St. Laurent, J. David Eisenberg

##Phoenix
- <a href="https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix">The Phoenix Project</a>
- <a href="http://api.phoenixframework.org/">Official Documentation</a> (current stable release)

#####Elixir Dose: Let's Build Web App With Phoenix And Ecto, by Riza Fahmi, edited by Augie De Blieck Jr.
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/lets-build-web-app-with-phoenix-and-ecto">Part 1</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-ecto-and-jobs-portal-project-part-2">Part 2</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-ecto-and-jobs-portal-project-part-3">Part 3</a>
  - <a href="http://elixirdose.com/post/phoenix-part-4-registration-and-login">Part 4</a>

#####Videos
  - <a href="http://www.confreaks.com/videos/3488-railsconf-workshop-all-aboard-the-elixir-expresse">All Aboard The Elixir Express</a>, Chris McCord
  - <a href="http://www.confreaks.com/videos/4132-elixirconf2014-rise-of-the-phoenix-building-an-elixir-web-framework">The Rise of the Phoenix</a>, Chris McCord

##Plug
  The Elixir middleware layer Phoenix makes extensive use of.
  - <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/plug">Source Code and Readme</a>
  - <a href="http://hexdocs.pm/plug/0.8.1/">Documentation</a>

##EEX
  The default templating system for Phoenix.
  - <a href="https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir">Source Code and Readme</a>
  - <a href="http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/eex/">Documentation</a>

##Cowboy
  The webserver Phoenix is based on.
  - <a href="https://github.com/ninenines/cowboy">Source Code and Readme</a>
  - <a href="http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/guide/">User Guides</a>
  - <a href="http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/manual/">Manual/Function Reference</a>

##Erlang
- <a href="http://www.erlang.org/doc/getting_started/users_guide.html">Erlang User Guide</a>

#####Books
- <a href="http://pragprog.com/book/jaerlang2/programming-erlang">Programming Erlang</a> 2nd Edition, Joe Armstrong
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920025818.do">Introducing Erlang</a>, Simon St. Laurent
- <a href="http://www.nostarch.com/erlang">Learn You Some Erlang for Great Good!</a>, Fred Hebert
- <a href="http://www.manning.com/logan/">Erlang and OTP in Action</a>, Martin Logan, Eric Merritt, and Richard Carlsson
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596518189.do">Erlang Programming</a>, Francesco Cesarini and Simon Thompson
- <a href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920024149.do">Designing for Scalability with Erlang/OTP</a>, Francesco Cesarini, Steve Vinoski
- <a href="http://www.erlang-in-anger.com/">Erlang in Anger</a>, Fred Hebert
