introduction/I_learning.md, before:

Here's a list of other resources for learning about Phoenix and some of the projects it depends on.

## Phoenix
- [The Phoenix Project](https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix)
- [Official Documentation]((http://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/)) (current stable release)

#### Videos
Phoenix author Chris McCord's ElixirConfEu 2015 keynote covers the roadmap to Phoenix 1.0.
- [Phoenix Takes Flight](http://www.chrismccord.com/blog/2015/05/09/elixirconfeu-keynote-phoenix-takes-flight/), Chris McCord

## Plug
The Elixir middleware layer that Phoenix makes extensive use of.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/plug)
- [Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/plug)

## Ecto
The default data layer for Phoenix.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/ecto)
- [Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/ecto/)

## ExUnit
- [Documentation](http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/ex_unit/)

## Cowboy
The webserver Phoenix is based on.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/ninenines/cowboy)
- [User Guides](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/guide/)
- [Manual/Function Reference](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/manual/)

## EEX
The default templating system for Phoenix.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir)
- [Documentation](http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/eex)

Commit message:

add Phoenix HTML to learning

introduction/I_learning.md, after:

Here's a list of other resources for learning about Phoenix and some of the projects it depends on.

## Phoenix
- [The Phoenix Project](https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix)
- [Official Documentation]((http://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/)) (current stable release)

#### Videos
Phoenix author Chris McCord's ElixirConfEu 2015 keynote covers the roadmap to Phoenix 1.0.
- [Phoenix Takes Flight](http://www.chrismccord.com/blog/2015/05/09/elixirconfeu-keynote-phoenix-takes-flight/), Chris McCord

## Plug
The Elixir middleware layer that Phoenix makes extensive use of.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/plug)
- [Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/plug)

## Ecto
The default data layer for Phoenix.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/ecto)
- [Documentation](http://hexdocs.pm/ecto/)

## Phoenix HTML
The project which contains many HTML helper functions used in Phoenix.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix_html)
- [Documentation](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix_html/)

## ExUnit
- [Documentation](http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/ex_unit/)

## Cowboy
The webserver Phoenix is based on.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/ninenines/cowboy)
- [User Guides](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/guide/)
- [Manual/Function Reference](http://ninenines.eu/docs/en/cowboy/1.0/manual/)

## EEX
The default templating system for Phoenix.
- [Source Code and Readme](https://github.com/elixir-lang/elixir)
- [Documentation](http://elixir-lang.org/docs/stable/eex)
